# Pattern Structure
To understand and use patterns, knowing their structure is fundamental. Although there are a wide variety of different pattern description templates, all of them consist of the same basic structure. This structure is divided into the following 4 parts:

 - Pattern name: The pattern name is a handle we can use to describe a design problem, its solutions, and consequences in a word or two. This is a very important part of the pattern structure, because it improves our design vocabulary. It also allows us to talk about specific design problems and solutions on a higher level of abstraction. Finding an appropriate and «good» name is one of the hardest parts in describing a pattern.
- Problem: The problem describes when to apply the pattern. It describes the problem and the context. In same cases it also describes some specific design problems or it gives a description of some class or object structures, which are symptomatic for an inflexible design. Sometimes the problem includes a list of precondition, which have to be met in order to apply the pattern.
- Solution: The solution describes the elements, which make up the design, their relationships, responsibilities and collaborations. It doesn't describe a concrete solution, like some particular implementation; rather it gives a more abstract solution in order to be reapplied again in some other appropriate situation.
- Consequences: The consequences are the results and trade-offs of applying a pattern. A pattern is not a "perfect" solution, in order to solve one problem; the pattern can introduce other aspects, which could impact the design negatively. So, when applying some pattern, there has to be a deep understanding on how it will impact the system, especially its flexibility, extensibility or portability.

# Pattern Catalogue 
Using patterns is an effective way to capture and organize knowledge about solutions to recurring problems in every domain of life, not only in software engineering. Knowing patterns not only enriches the vocabulary of a software architect or designer, it also allows a company to capture knowledge in a formal and descriptive way, which can be used as a reference or source of solutions for their projects in the future.

Organizing patters in a catalogue (Pattern Language is often used as a synonym for a pattern catalogue) helps to effectively organize knowledge in such a manner, that the solution for recurring problem can be easily found and applied. Also the usage of patterns in different projects/products can be tracked and managed, which helps to write technical documentation, because the key architectural problems could have been solved by some patterns from the catalogue, which are well documented.